[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: One abstraction that I've
observed as particularly useful is to
think about things in terms of a sequence,
a sequence of events.
My definition for a sequence is that it's
a list of automatically chained promises.
We know that we can chain promises
together, I've shown you how to do that.
It's pretty straightforward
once you learn it.
Five minutes, you're an expert
at it like the rest of us.
But as you start doing that,
dozens and hundreds and
even thousands of times in a project,
you start to wonder gee, do I really have
to create and return another promise?
It gets a little bit tedious,
it gets a lot tedious.
Years ago, I was an early adopter
of some of these concepts.
I was working on promises
before we had a name for them.
Like five, six years ago, prenode, we were
working on this concept of how to bring
this stuff and
I was an early experimenter in this.
And I decided that one
of the big problems was,
I don't want to have to
remember to create and
chain a promise when my assumption should
be, I'm always gonna do another step.
Why not make it automatically create and
chain promises for me.
So my early experiments into this five,
six years ago, before we had a name for
promises, long before any of the existing
libraries that you've heard of were
around, is I was creating a library for
that abstraction.
And that library has gone through a lot
of revisions and several name changes.
It eventually arrived at the name that it
currently goes by, which is asynquence
which is the word asynch plus
the word sequence smushed together,
mostly cuz there are no other good
names left [LAUGH] basically.
Gotta come up with a unique name and
there were no other good names,
but it does speak to what its purpose is.
Its purpose is to present
you that abstraction,
that notion of a sequence of a series
of automatically chained promises.
You'll notice that I can do a chain just
like when you do with a promise chain, but
there are some important differences here.
On line 2, you'll notice that
my then function is passed
in function callback that I call done,
just by convention, I call it done.
That's our resolution trigger.
So whenever that step on line 3
is complete, it calls done and
that's what moves the sequence
onto its next step.
The promise to handle all that
was created behind the scenes and
automatically chained in so
I didn't have to worry about that part.
I only needed to worry about when to
signal that it was time to move on
to the next step.
So their promises are absolutely
happening under the covers but
it's abstracting some of
the tedious parts of that API.
It's covering up some of the rough parts,
it's doing error handling
in a more sensible way.
Basically, the design of asynquence was
to make promises easier to reason about,
easier to teach.
That was the original design goal.
At this point, asynquence is
actually quite a bit more than that.
It still has the same notion of
a sequence and whatever, but
I actually don't really use the sequence
nature of asynquence that much.
Cuz these higher order patterns are also,
I think, much more interesting,
the stuff that we're gonna get to
through the end of the workshop.
But at its heart, all it takes to
make a sequence is to start chaining
steps together just like you
would with a promise and
letting it do some of that work for you.
So line 2 is a .then,
that's just a regular step.
But line 5 shows you that
I can create a gate step
just like I can do a promise.all.
But rather than having a function
that I return a promise.all from,
which is super tedious, I just name
my steps based upon what they do.
So in this API,
it's called .gate and there's an alias to
.all if you prefer the word all to gate.
You can use whichever one you want,
but it does exactly the same thing.
It takes those two or however many
functions and runs them in parallel.
Whenever all of them successfully
complete, it moves on.
I am not going to try to convince or
sell you that you should
switch to using asynsequence.
However, I designed asynquence to
make this stuff easier to teach.
So for the balance of this workshop,
all the exercises that we're going to do
are going to rely upon using asynquence.
So you only have to learn it just enough
to get through these exercises and
if you never want to use it again,
that's totally fine.
But it was important that we have one
thing to learn rather than having to
learn 15 different
libraries to do this stuff.
So asynquence will handle all
the stuff that we will talk about
through the rest of the workshop.
It's why I'm giving you a brief
introduction to the way that it works.
[COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Just as an example
back to our silly calculating
the meaning of life.
Here's asynquence's version
of meaning of life and
you'll notice on line 8,
I'm using a step called a waterfall.
That's another higher order
abstraction that we could define.
What a waterfall is is
still a sequential series.
It's not gonna do stuff in parallel,
still a sequential series, but
it automatically collects
the output from each step and
passes it on to the next and
the next and the next.
So by the end, you have all
the outputs from all the steps.
You don't have to manually collect
all those and pass them along,
it automatically does that for you.
So at the end on line 12,
we get both num1 and
num2 from the two previous series steps.
That's what I call a waterfall.
Something I was doing fairly often and
I was doing very manually
with other variables and
I said let's make that into an abstraction
that we can add into the library.
So asynquence ships with about 10 or
15 core methods that
are the base ones that you need.
And there's also an optional contrib
library with about 15 to 20 other
optional step methods that you can add in
for all this other higher level stuff.
We'll get into reactive programming and
CSP and
other things later in the workshop.
One other thing to point out, as you see
on line 12, I have a .seq step type.
What's that all about?
Well in the regular Promise library,
the then functions is polymorphic.
That's a fancy way of saying it changes
its behavior based upon what you return,
what you do with it.
I tend to think that polymorphic
functions are a bit more confusing.
So when I look at a then function, I don't
actually know is it returning an immediate
value, is it rejecting,
is it returning a promise for something,
I don't know what it's doing and
I have to inspect it more closely.
The design of asynquence said, rather
than having one polymorphic function for
everything, you name the step
based upon what the step does.
So the sequence step,
the .seq step, is expecting a sequence
back and a sequence is like a promise.
So it's expecting
a promise back basically,
which is why we return on line 15 just
like you do in a normal promise thing.
If you do need to produce one externally
and return it, you use a .seq step.
If you don't need to produce your own,
you use a .then step.
If you need to do a synchronous step, like
you just need to print something out and
you don't need to do anything
asynchronous, you use .val for the values.
You inspect or transform a value.
So basically, the design of this API
is such that each method name does
one specific thing, and its named based
upon that expectation, rather than
having to learn all the different
polymorphic behaviors of one method.